All right guys.
Now we're going to look at the box shadow property and box Sharyl actually takes a bunch of different
values so we're gonna go over those and we're going to just show you how to add some shadows to some
as some did.
Some elements here.
So let's create a new file called 0 4 underscore box underscore shadows dot HD here.
Now let's add our boilerplate say a box shadows
style.
Now for the H table I'm just gonna put in a container class
and let's do let's do three boxes so we'll do dot box and then in here will it's to put an H three.
I'll just say heading and then a paragraph.
I'll do Lorem 10 and then I'm just gonna have three of these.
So we'll just go ahead and bring this down three times.
All right let's open this with live server and should look like this.
So what I want to do is I'm going to use flex to display the boxes.
So we're gonna take the container class and we're just going to say display flex.
Okay.
So we have our boxes and then I'm just gonna add some base styling to the box class as well.
Before we get into the shadows.
So just some padding
and let's do some margin
and let's see we'll do.
Let's do a background of coral and we'll see color white.
All right.
So now we have some boxes.
I should probably make it a little wider so close this up and we should be good like great here okay.
So we have boxes now we're gonna add some shadows so I'm going to say box shadow now like I said there's
there's different basically options or values that you can that you can use.
So I'm going to paste in a comment right above and we're going to put in three values here to to start
off with.
So the first is going to be the offset x next will be the offset Y and the last will be the color.
So you guys know what a shadow is it just comes off the box.
Now offset X is going to be on the x axis.
K X is always gonna be horizontal Y is vertical so let's say for the x axis or am sorry X offset we
want to do 10 pixels and then for the Y we'll do 10 pixels as well.
And then next will be the color.
I'm going to use teal.
It's kind of kind of weird colors but I just wanted to stand out.
So let's go ahead and save that.
And as you can see it added a box shadow it put 10 pixels on the x axis ten on the Y.
All right.
Now I'm gonna be adding different box shadow values the next one I want to add the Blur radius because
there's actually more that you can add and one of them is a blur radius.
So this is gonna have four parameters so I'm going to copy what I did here and this is just going to
overwrite the one before it.
So the blow radius is going to be after the offset y and before the color and the blow radius is just
that it's going to add a blur effect to it and it's in pixels so let's say 20 pixels and we'll save.
And now notice that the shadows have a blur.
And if these stick out too much for you if you want them to be less you could do like five pixels and
save and now it's less and you can experiment with it.
Now you can also do negative values for the offsets.
What that will do is it will add the shadow to the top and the left by default we have the shadow coming
out of the right and the bottom.
But what we could do is just copy copy this line here and let's just say negative five and negative
5 and save.
And now you can see that the shadow was actually on the left and the top.
OK so negative five on the X is going to go this way negative five on the Y is going to go up.
All right.
Now we can also do a spread radius so how far do we want it to spread.
So I'm going to actually copy these comments again and I'm just putting these comments here so you know
what each of these values are.
So let's grab this one here.
So we'll say let's do three pixels for the offset.
Why offset X blur radius.
Let's do 10 pixels and then see for the spread radius.
We'll do one pixel and then instead of using a solid color I'm going to use our GPA.
So it's red green blue alpha.
So the red green blue we've went over this.
I'm going to use zero for them all which will make it black.
And then the Alpha is a transparency.
So we're going to do zero point three here and save.
So this is something I don't really use box shadows that much I don't particularly like the look of
them.
Some people do if I were to use them it would be something like this something very very subtle.
So as in I would probably use our GPA because the the the less transparent the lighter this is if we
were to do like zero point nine and save.
You can see it's much darker.
Now you may like that kind of look but I don't I think it looks really you know 2002 ish.
So I don't use shadows that much but nevertheless you should know how to how to add them.
All right.
Let's see we can also do an inset box shadow meaning that it's not coming it's on on the outside it's
on the inside.
So I'm going to just paste this in here and let's say box shadow and we can specify inset and then we
do the offset x x and y.
So I'm actually going to do negative three pixels and negative three.
So that's at the left and the top.
And let's do teal and save I'm sorry not the left in the top it's going to be down here because when
you do inset it's the opposite.
If I wanted it to be the left in the top I would do positive values shows you how much I actually who's
this.
But yeah we can do that if we want.
It's now it's on the inset of the box it's not coming like from the outside.
And then we can also do multiple shadows
so to do that we could say like Box shadow and we could do let's say three pixels three pixels teal
and then we can put a comma and let's do negative three pixels negative three pixels and we'll do all
of it's gonna be very ugly.
But just to show you how this works if I save you can see now I have the teal shadow box shadow right
here and then the all of.
Up top.
OK.
So you can separate them with a comma if you want to add more and of course you could add a blur radius
if we do let's do 10 pixels here and 10 pixels here and we'll save and we get our blurry radius.
OK.
So that's going to be it for box shadows guys like I said it's not something that I usually use I don't
I don't really like the look of them but that's how how you use them in the next video we're going to
take a look at text shadows.